[DevPolicy] Add guidelines for fuzzer-generated issue reports (#112372)
llvm/llvm-project: llvm/docs/DeveloperPolicy.rst

* 3rd step: If Galina could not help you, please escalate to the
  `Infrastructure Working Group <mailto:iwg@llvm.org>`_.

Guidelines for fuzzer-generated issues
--------------------------------------

Fuzzing is a valuable tool for finding compiler bugs, and the LLVM project
welcomes fuzzer-generated test cases. However, some additional guidelines
should be followed to make such reports maximally useful.

Fuzzer-generated issues should indicate that they are such, either in the
issue description, or (for organization members) by applying the

> ``fuzzer-generated`` label. This helps us prioritize issues. The remaining

Reviewer: Note currently folks are using `clang:fronted:fuzzer` and `compiler-rt:fuzzer` I don't have a strong preference here but I would be curious to know how folks feel about having one bucket Vs more fine grained ones.

Reviewer 2: My preference is to have a single label that can be combined with others. At least for the sake of label length and total number of labels we have, which is overwhelming already.

Author: `compiler-rt:fuzzer` is for libfuzzer in compiler-rt, not for fuzzer-generated issues.

guidelines depend on the type of issue the fuzzer detects.

**For miscompilations:** These issues are usually detected by looking for
different results when using ``-O0`` and ``-O2``, or similar. When reporting
miscompilations, please make sure that your fuzzing methodology can only
generate well-defined, deterministic code. Results between optimizations levels
can legitimately differ if the code invokes undefined behavior, or includes
non-deterministic operations. Note that running cleanly under sanitizers is
not sufficient to establish absense of undefined behavior.

Reports using ``-Ofast``, ``-ffast-math``, or other flags that permit
floating-point reassociation/approximation must include a credible root cause
analysis, as behavior differences are likely to be caused by legal transforms.

> **For crashes / assertion failures:** Crashes that occur on valid code are more

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning regressions against the last release are probably almost always interesting even if the code is invalid.

valuable than crashes on invalid code. Both can be reported, but the former is
more likely to see a timely fix.

Fuzzing can be performed at multiple levels, where higher levels are less likely
to produce false positives. For example, a crash triggered by valid C code will
generally indicate a real bug. However, a crash triggered by syntactically
well-formed LLVM IR may not. For example, a target that does not support
scalable vectors may break when provided IR using them. When fuzzing at a lower
level, it is encouraged to verify the plausibility of the results.

> Fatal errors that do not generate a stack trace should not be reported. They

Author: I've tweaked this sentence to limit it to LLVM IR fuzzing.

* 3rd step: If Galina could not help you, please escalate to the
  `Infrastructure Working Group <mailto:iwg@llvm.org>`_.

Guidelines for fuzzer-generated issues
--------------------------------------

> Fuzzing is a valuable tool for finding compiler bugs, and the LLVM project
> welcomes fuzzer-generated test cases. However, some additional guidelines
> should be followed to make such reports maximally useful.

Reviewer 3: How about the following?
```suggestion
Fuzzing is a valuable technique for finding bugs, including those in software like compilers. The LLVM project
welcomes fuzzer-generated test cases, however, some additional guidelines
should be followed to make such reports maximally useful.
```

Fuzzer-generated issues should indicate that they are such, either in the
issue description, or (for organization members) by applying the
``fuzzer-generated`` label.

Issues should include a minimized reproducer (including both the necessary code
and command line arguments) both as part of the issue description and as a

> godbolt.org link. An effort should be made to deduplicate issues that likely

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
godbolt.org/alive2.llvm.org link. An effort should be made to deduplicate issues that likely
```
alive2.llvm.org is useful for reporting miscompilation bugs without constructing an executable program.

have the same root cause, and check whether a similar issue has already been
reported. Reports should always be submitted against current LLVM ``main``,
not a released version.

> If possible, provide information on when an issue was introduced (e.g. by

Reviewer 5: I think we can go further here.  Recent regressions with change attribution are the most useful.  Recent regressions with only release attributions are less useful.

checking older versions on godbolt). A regression from the last LLVM release
has higher priority than an issue that existed for decades.

> The remaining guidelines depend on the type of issue the fuzzer detects.

Reviewer 5: Could you add something like this summary comment that appears to address many of your specific points below?  You could leave the details if you want, but the high level point seems useful as well.  

The person filing an issue is responsible for justifying why the reported behavior is in fact wrong.  In many cases, this justification is distinctly non-trivial.  For fuzzer campaigns, our expectations are higher than for average user reported bugs, and you may need to either structure a fuzzer campaign carefully to ensure valid bugs or spend a bunch of time analyzing each before filing.

**For miscompilations:** These issues are usually detected by looking for
different results when using ``-O0`` and ``-O2``, or similar. When reporting
miscompilations, please make sure that your fuzzing methodology can only
generate well-defined, deterministic code. Results between optimizations levels
can legitimately differ if the code invokes undefined behavior, or includes
non-deterministic operations. Note that running cleanly under sanitizers is
not sufficient to establish absense of undefined behavior.

Reports using ``-Ofast``, ``-ffast-math``, or other flags that permit
floating-point reassociation/approximation must include a credible root cause
analysis, as behavior differences are likely to be caused by legal transforms.

> 

Reviewer 4: Would be better to add a link to `-opt-bisect-limit` for pass-level bug localization.

**For crashes / assertion failures:** Crashes that occur on valid code are more
valuable than crashes on invalid code. Both can be reported, but the former is
more likely to see a timely fix.

Fuzzing can be performed at multiple levels, where higher levels are less likely
to produce false positives. For example, a crash triggered by valid C code will
generally indicate a real bug. However, a crash triggered by syntactically
well-formed LLVM IR may not. For example, a target that does not support
scalable vectors may break when provided IR using them. When fuzzing at a lower

> level, it is encouraged to verify the plausibility of the results.

Reviewer 4: Some ridiculous cases should be rejected. An example: https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues/91975
This is common in test cases generated by LLM-based fuzzers.

When fuzzing LLVM IR, fatal errors that do not generate a stack trace should
not be reported. They indicate an incorrect use of LLVM, rather than a bug.

> 

Reviewer 4: And add a link to `llvm-reduce` here.

**For missed optimizations:** There is an infinite number of optimizations that
*could* be implemented, but only a small subset of them is relevant for
real-world code. As such, fuzzer-generated reports for missed optimizations are
only accepted if plausible real-world usefulness can be shown.

For example, a valid strategy is to take a corpus of real-world code and use a
super-optimizer to find missed optimization opportunities. An invalid strategy

> is to generate random code and check whether GCC generates less code than Clang.

Reviewer 5: I find the second half of this problematic.  In particular, I have used targeted differential fuzzing to identify small test cases which illustrate differences between gcc and clang in the past, and found that quite useful.  A categorical ban on such cases seems uncalled for.

(See my overall comment for a suggested framing)

Reviewer 4: I think the key point here is to ban random-generated missed-optimization reports. If the motivating case comes from some real-world code, it is ok to use GCC for differential testing.

Fuzzer-generated missed optimization reports that are not derived from
real-world code must include a root-cause analysis, and an explanation for why
you believe that the missed optimization has real-world relevance.

> 

Reviewer 4: Should add some comments on non-deterministic bugs (compiler should be run with ASLR disabled).
1. IR diff
2. textual IR diff (e.g., instruction order/incoming BB order)
3. statistics diff

I think it is important for reproducible builds.

Reviewer 3: I don't think ASLR enabled/disabled has anything to do with it. If the crash/miscompilation is non-deterministically reproducible, that will happen regardless of text / data / etc sections of the compiler being located at a different memory location each time (I would agree if we were debugging a kernel bug). The addresses in the stack trace will likely be different anyways (due to, e.g., different env variables). What should probably matter is the full clang command (target/cpu/arch included).

Reviewer 4: >  If the crash/miscompilation is non-deterministically reproducible

Perhaps you are mistaken. There is no crash/miscompilation. I mean compiler should produce the same result under the same environment settings.

> I don't think ASLR enabled/disabled has anything to do with it.

Agree. Compiler should produce deterministic result regardless of non-determinism in memory allocation.

Reviewer 3: > Perhaps you are mistaken. There is no crash/miscompilation. I mean compiler should produce the same result under the same environment settings.

I see, I thought you were referring to miscompilations/crash that happen non-deterministically (like, e.g., some we saw in GVNSink, IIRC).

Author: I don't really get what the suggested change to the text here is. Do you want to add a fourth category next to miscompile/crash/missed optimization?

Reviewer 4: > I don't really get what the suggested change to the text here is. Do you want to add a fourth category next to miscompile/crash/missed optimization?

Yeah.
